# Bellabeat-project

# About The Company
Bellabeat, a health-focused tech company founded by Urška Sršen, empowers women with health data through its smart devices. Despite early success and diverse marketing channels, Sršen believes user data holds untapped growth potential. She tasks the marketing analytics team to analyze user behavior and translate those insights into high-level marketing strategies for Bellabeat.

# Scenerio
As a data analyst at Bellabeat, a company revolutionizing women’s health with its smart devices, I’m tasked with delving into user data. Our goal? Unearth hidden gems within fitness data specific to our Bellabeat product. This user behavior analysis will be the key to unlocking new market growth for Bellabeat. By understanding how women currently utilize their smart devices, I can translate those insights into high-level marketing strategies, presented directly to the Bellabeat executive team. This data-driven approach will propel Bellabeat towards becoming a major force in the global smart device market.

# Business Task
* Analyze user data specifically focused on fitness metrics collected through Fitbit datasets. 
* Gain and translate insights into actionable marketing strategies for Bellabeat. 
* Presentation of findings and recommendations to the Bellabeat executive team. 
* Leverage user data to unlock new growth opportunities/market strategies and propel       Bellabeat towards becoming a major player in the global smart device market.

# Data Analysis Process
# 1. Ask 
Sršen asks me to analyze smart device usage data in order to gain insight into how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart
devices. She then wants me to select one Bellabeat product to apply these insights to in my presentation. These questions will guide my analysis:
* What are some trends in smart device usage?
* How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
* How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?

# 2. Prepare 
I am using a public data from Kaggle pointed out by Sršen. The FitBit Fitness Tracker Data (CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through Mobius) that explores smart device users’ daily habits.This Kaggle data set contains personal fitness tracker from thirty fitbit users. Thirty three eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. It includes information about daily activity, steps, and weight that can be used to explore users’ habits.

# Information about the Dataset
* The dataset is generated by respondents from a survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 12 March 2016 to 12 May 2016.
* 30 FitBit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data.
* Data collected incldes physical activity recorded in minutes, heart rate, sleep monitoring, daily activity and steps.

# Limitations of the Data
* The data lacks crucial demographic information like age, occupation, and gender.
* The data does not represent the entire Fitbit user base. Users who choose to share their data might have different habits compared to the general population.
* The data was collected 7 years ago. Technology and user behavior related to fitness trackers may have evolved since then.

# 3. Process
* I chose R to perform analysis because it excels at statistical analysis, which is crucial for tasks like examining correlations between sleep, activity, and other health metrics in the Fitbit data. R also offers powerful tools for data visualization through packages like ggplot2.
* I performed Exploratary Data Analysis (EDA) in order to ensure my data is clean by calling out head, str, colnames, rename, glimpse, view functions. By doing this, I ensured that all data types are consistent through out all datasets to enable efficient merging. I  manipulated the date column by extracting weekdays in order to analyze trends in the data in relation to days. I also called out the summary function in order to get summary statistics of the data.

  # 4. Analyze
